# Thirty datasets with inapplicable data

These are the datasets used to evaluate the behaviour of the
inapplicable algorithm in Brazeau et al. (2019) . The name of each item
corresponds to the datasets listed below. Datasets are sorted into two
subsets, each sorted alphabetically; the first subset comprise simpler
datasets with faster processing times. `inapplicable.datasets` provide
the data in the matrix format generated by
[`read.nexus.data()`](https://rdrr.io/pkg/ape/man/read.nexus.data.html);
`inapplicable.phyData` are in `phyDat` format. `inapplicable.trees`
lists for each dataset a sample of up to 50 trees obtained by tree
search under each inapplicable treatment, named accordingly.
`inapplicable.citations` is a named character vector specifying the
source of each dataset.

## Usage

``` r
inapplicable.datasets

inapplicable.phyData

inapplicable.trees

inapplicable.citations
```

## Format

An object of class `list` of length 30.

An object of class `list` of length 30.

An object of class `list` of length 31.

An object of class `character` of length 30.

## Source

Subset one (faster processing):

- Agnarsson2004:

  AGNARSSON, I. 2004. Morphological phylogeny of cobweb spiders and
  their relatives (Araneae, Araneoidea, Theridiidae). Zoological Journal
  of the Linnean Society, 141, 447–626.

- Capa2011:

  CAPA, M., HUTCHINGS, P., AGUADO, M. T. and BOTT, N. J. 2011. Phylogeny
  of Sabellidae (Annelida) and relationships with other taxa inferred
  from morphology and multiple genes. Cladistics, 27, 449–469.

- DeAssis2011:

  DE ASSIS, J. E. and CHRISTOFFERSEN, M. L. 2011. Phylogenetic
  relationships within Maldanidae (Capitellida, Annelida), based on
  morphological characters. Systematics and Biodiversity, 9, 233–245.

- OLeary1999:

  O'LEARY, M. A. and GEISLER, J. H. 1999. The position of Cetacea within
  Mammalia: phylogenetic analysis of morphological data from extinct and
  extant taxa. Systematic Biology, 48, 455–490.

- Rousset2004:

  ROUSSET, V., ROUSE, G. W., SIDDALL, M. E., TILLIER, A. and
  PLEIJEL, F. 2004. The phylogenetic position of Siboglinidae (Annelida)
  inferred from 18S rRNA, 28S rRNA and morphological data. Cladistics,
  20, 518–533.

- Sano2011:

  SANO, M. and AKIMOTO, S.-I. 2011. Morphological phylogeny of
  gall-forming aphids of the tribe Eriosomatini (Aphididae:
  Eriosomatinae). Systematic Entomology, 36, 607–627.

- Sansom2010:

  SANSOM, R. S., FREEDMAN, K., GABBOTT, S. E., ALDRIDGE, R. J. and
  PURNELL, M. A. 2010. Taphonomy and affinity of an enigmatic Silurian
  vertebrate, *Jamoytius kerwoodi* White. Palaeontology, 53, 1393–1409.

- Schulze2007:

  SCHULZE, A., CUTLER, E. B. and GIRIBET, G. 2007. Phylogeny of
  sipunculan worms: A combined analysis of four gene regions and
  morphology. Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution, 42, 171–92.

- Shultz2007:

  SHULTZ, J. W. 2007. A phylogenetic analysis of the arachnid orders
  based on morphological characters. Zoological Journal of the Linnean
  Society, 150, 221–265.

- Wetterer2000:

  WETTERER, A. L., ROCKKMAN, M. V. and SIMMONS, N. B. 2000. Phylogeny of
  phyllostomid bats (Mammalia: Chiroptera): data from diverse
  morphological systems, sex chromosomes, and restriction sites.
  Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History, 248, 1–200.

- Wills2012:

  WILLS, M. A., GERBER, S., RUTA, M. and HUGHES, M. 2012. The disparity
  of priapulid, archaeopriapulid and palaeoscolecid worms in the light
  of new data. Journal of Evolutionary Biology, 25, 2056–2076.

Subset two (longer processing times):

- Aguado2009:

  AGUADO, M. T. and SAN MARTIN, G. 2009. Phylogeny of Syllidae
  (Polychaeta) based on morphological data. Zoologica Scripta, 38,
  379–402.

- Aria2015:

  ARIA, C., CARON, J. B. and GAINES, R. 2015. A large new leanchoiliid
  from the Burgess Shale and the influence of inapplicable states on
  stem arthropod phylogeny. Palaeontology, 58, 629–660.

- Asher2005:

  ASHER, R. J. and HOFREITER, M. 2006. Tenrec phylogeny and the
  noninvasive extraction of nuclear DNA. Systematic biology, 55, 181–94.

- Baker2009:

  BAKER, W. J., SAVOLAINEN, V., ASMUSSEN-LANGE, C. B., CHASE, M. W.,
  DRANSFIELD, J., FOREST, F., HARLEY, M. M., UHL, N. W. and
  WILKINSON, M. 2009. Complete generic-level phylogenetic analyses of
  palms (Arecaceae) with comparisons of supertree and supermatrix
  approaches. Systematic Biology, 58, 240–256.

- Bouchenak2010:

  BOUCHENAK-KHELLADI, Y., VERBOOM, G. A., SAVOLAINEN, V. and
  HODKINSON, T. R. 2010. Biogeography of the grasses (Poaceae): a
  phylogenetic approach to reveal evolutionary history in geographical
  space and geological time. Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society,
  162, 543–557.

- Conrad2008:

  CONRAD, J. L. 2008. Phylogeny And Systematics Of Squamata (Reptilia)
  Based On Morphology. Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural
  History, 310, 1–182.

- Dikow2009:

  DIKOW, T. 2009. A phylogenetic hypothesis for Asilidae based on a
  total evidence analysis of morphological and DNA sequence data
  (Insecta: Diptera: Brachycera: Asiloidea). Organisms Diversity and
  Evolution, 9, 165–188.

- Eklund2004:

  EKLUND, H., DOYLE, J. A. and HERENDEEN, P. S. 2004. Morphological
  phylogenetic analysis of living and fossil Chloranthaceae.
  International Journal of Plant Sciences, 165, 107–151.

- Geisler2001:

  GEISLER, J. H. 2001. New morphological evidence for the phylogeny of
  Artiodactyla, Cetacea, and Mesonychidae. American Museum Novitates,
  3344, 53.

- Giles2015:

  GILES, S., FRIEDMAN, M. and BRAZEAU, M. D. 2015. Osteichthyan-like
  cranial conditions in an Early Devonian stem gnathostome. Nature, 520,
  82–85.

- Griswold1999:

  GRISWOLD, C. E., CODDINGTON, J. A., PLATNICK, N. I. and
  FORSTER, R. R. 1999. Towards a phylogeny of entelegyne spiders
  (Araneae, Araneomorphae, Entelegynae). Journal of Arachnology, 27,
  53–63.

- Liljeblad2008:

  LILJEBLAD, J., RONQUIST, F., NIEVES-ALDREY, J. L., FONTAL-CAZALLA, F.,
  ROS-FARRE, P., GAITROS, D. and PUJADE-VILLAR, J. 2008. A fully
  web-illustrated morphological phylogenetic study of relationships
  among oak gall wasps and their closest relatives (Hymenoptera:
  Cynipidae).

- Loconte1991:

  LOCONTE, H. and STEVENSON, D. W. 1991. Cladistics of the Magnoliidae.
  Cladistics, 7, 267–296.

- Longrich2010:

  LONGRICH, N. R., SANKEY, J. and TANKE, D. 2010. *Texacephale
  langstoni*, a new genus of pachycephalosaurid (Dinosauria:
  Ornithischia) from the upper Campanian Aguja Formation, southern
  Texas, USA. Cretaceous Research, 31, 274–284.

- OMeara2014:

  O'MEARA, R. N. and THOMPSON, R. S. 2014. Were There Miocene
  Meridiolestidans? Assessing the phylogenetic placement of *Necrolestes
  patagonensis* and the presence of a 40 million year Meridiolestidan
  ghost lineage. Journal of Mammalian Evolution, 21, 271–284.

- Rougier2012:

  ROUGIER, G. W., WIBLE, J. R., BECK, R. M. D. and APESTEGUIA, S. 2012.
  The Miocene mammal *Necrolestes* demonstrates the survival of a
  Mesozoic nontherian lineage into the late Cenozoic of South America.
  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 109, 20053–8.

- Sharkey2011:

  SHARKEY, M. J., CARPENTER, J. M., VILHELMSEN, L., HERATY, J.,
  LILJEBLAD, J., DOWLING, A. P. G., SCHULMEISTER, S., MURRAY, D.,
  DEANS, A. R., RONQUIST, F., KROGMANN, L. and WHEELER, W. C. 2012.
  Phylogenetic relationships among superfamilies of Hymenoptera.
  Cladistics, 28, 80–112.

- Sundue2010:

  SUNDUE, M. A., ISLAM, M. B. and RANKER, T. A. 2010. Systematics of
  Grammitid Ferns (Polypodiaceae): Using Morphology and Plastid Sequence
  Data to Resolve the Circumscriptions of Melpomene and the Polyphyletic
  Genera *Lellingeria* and *Terpsichore*. Systematic Botany, 35,
  701–715.

- Vinther2008:

  VINTHER, J., VAN ROY, P. and BRIGGS, D. E. G. 2008. Machaeridians are
  Palaeozoic armoured annelids. Nature, 451, 185–188.

- Wilson2003:

  WILSON, G. D. F. and EDGECOMBE, G. D. 2003. The Triassic isopod
  *Protamphisopus wianamattensis* (Chilton) and comparison by extant
  taxa (Crustacea, Phreatoicidea). Journal of Paleontology, 77, 454–470.

- Wortley2006:

  WORTLEY, A. H. and SCOTLAND, R. W. 2006. The effect of combining
  molecular and morphological data in published phylogenetic analyses.
  Systematic Biology, 55, 677–685.

- Zanol2014:

  ZANOL, J., HALANYCH, K. M. and FAUCHALD, K. 2014. Reconciling taxonomy
  and phylogeny in the bristleworm family Eunicidae (Polychaete,
  Annelida). Zoologica Scripta, 43, 79–100.

- Zhu2013:

  ZHU, M., YU, X., AHLBERG, P. E., CHOO, B., LU, J., QIAO, T., QU, Q.,
  ZHAO, W., JIA, L., BLOM, H. and ZHU, Y. 2013. A Silurian placoderm
  with osteichthyan-like marginal jaw bones. Nature, 502, 188–193.

## References

Brazeau MD, Guillerme T, Smith MR (2019). “An algorithm for
morphological phylogenetic analysis with inapplicable data.” *Systematic
Biology*, **68**(4), 619–631.
[doi:10.1093/sysbio/syy083](https://doi.org/10.1093/sysbio/syy083) .

## Examples

``` r
data("inapplicable.datasets", package = "TreeSearch")
names(inapplicable.datasets)
#>  [1] "Agnarsson2004" "Aguado2009"    "Aria2015"      "Asher2005"    
#>  [5] "Capa2011"      "Conrad2008"    "DeAssis2011"   "Dikow2009"    
#>  [9] "Eklund2004"    "Geisler2001"   "Giles2015"     "Griswold1999" 
#> [13] "Liljeblad2008" "Loconte1991"   "Longrich2010"  "OLeary1999"   
#> [17] "OMeara2014"    "Rougier2012"   "Rousset2004"   "Sano2011"     
#> [21] "Sansom2010"    "Schulze2007"   "Shultz2007"    "Vinther2008"  
#> [25] "Wetterer2000"  "Wills2012"     "Wilson2003"    "Wortley2006"  
#> [29] "Zanol2014"     "Zhu2013"      
```
